skills/open-mail-cli/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: open-mail-cli
description: >
  Gives the agent the ability to send, receive, search, and manage emails directly from the terminal.
  Use this skill when the agent needs to handle email tasks: sending messages, reading inbox,
  replying, forwarding, managing contacts, organizing with tags/folders/filters, scheduling
  background sync, or automating email workflows. Supports IMAP/SMTP with Gmail, Outlook, QQ Mail,
  and other standard providers. Activates on keywords: send email, check inbox, reply, forward,
  email automation, contacts, email template, notifications.
---

# Open Mail CLI - Agent Email Toolkit

This skill equips the agent with a full-featured email client accessible via the `mail-cli` command. The agent can send, receive, search, organize, and automate emails entirely from the terminal through IMAP/SMTP protocols, with offline-first local storage.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g open-mail-cli
# Requirements: Node.js >= 18.0.0
```

## Getting Started

### 1. Configure an Email Account

```bash
# Interactive wizard (recommended)
mail-cli config

# Or manual setup
mail-cli account add --email user@gmail.com --name "My Gmail" \
  --imap-host imap.gmail.com --imap-port 993 \
  --smtp-host smtp.gmail.com --smtp-port 465 \
  --username user@gmail.com --password "app-password" --test
```

### 2. Sync, Read, and Send

```bash
mail-cli sync                # Fetch emails from server
mail-cli list --unread       # Browse unread emails
mail-cli read <email-id>     # Read a specific email
mail-cli send --to user@example.com --subject "Hello" --body "Content"
```

## Capabilities Overview

Choose the reference that matches the task at hand. Each reference includes purpose, scenarios, best practices, and full command syntax.

### Sending & Composing
> Reference: [references/sending-and-replying.md](references/sending-and-replying.md)

Send emails, reply to conversations, forward messages, and manage drafts. Use this when the user needs to compose or respond to emails.

### Reading & Searching
> Reference: [references/reading-and-searching.md](references/reading-and-searching.md)

List, filter, read, and search emails. View conversations as threads. Use this when the user wants to check inbox, find specific emails, or follow a conversation.

### Organization
> Reference: [references/organization.md](references/organization.md)

Organize emails with tags, folders, stars, flags, and trash management. Use this when the user wants to categorize, prioritize, or clean up their mailbox.

### Accounts & Sync
> Reference: [references/accounts-and-sync.md](references/accounts-and-sync.md)

Manage multiple email accounts, configure IMAP/SMTP, run background sync daemon. Includes provider settings table (Gmail, Outlook, QQ Mail, etc.) and troubleshooting. Use this for setup, connectivity issues, or multi-account workflows.

### Automation
> Reference: [references/automation.md](references/automation.md)

Email templates with variables, signatures, desktop notifications, spam filtering, contact management, and import/export. Use this when the user wants to automate repetitive email tasks or manage contacts and spam.

## Key Principles

- **Sync before read**: Local storage is offline-first. Always `mail-cli sync` before listing or searching if fresh data is expected.
- **Confirm before send**: Always verify recipient, subject, and content with the user before executing `send`, `reply`, or `forward`.
- **Non-destructive by default**: `delete` moves to trash. Only use `--permanent` when the user explicitly requests irreversible deletion.
- **Use `--yes` for automation**: Skip interactive confirmation prompts in automated workflows.
- **Templates over repetition**: If the user sends similar emails more than twice, create a template.
- **Tags for cross-cutting, folders for exclusive**: An email can have multiple tags but belongs to one folder.

Commit message:

docs: update README and agent skills with new features from recent commits
Add agent integration section highlighting structured output, field selection,
webhooks, exit codes, and OpenAPI docs. Update project stats and tech stack.
Add skills references for output control, error handling, webhooks, and HTTP API.

skills/open-mail-cli/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: open-mail-cli
description: >
  Gives the agent the ability to send, receive, search, and manage emails directly from the terminal
  or via a local HTTP API. Use this skill when the agent needs to handle email tasks: sending messages,
  reading inbox, replying, forwarding, managing contacts, organizing with tags/folders/filters,
  scheduling background sync, setting up webhooks for new email events, or automating email workflows.
  Supports structured output (--format json/markdown/html), field selection (--fields), standardized
  exit codes, and a local REST API with OpenAPI docs. Works with IMAP/SMTP providers including Gmail,
  Outlook, QQ Mail, and others. Activates on keywords: send email, check inbox, reply, forward,
  email automation, contacts, email template, notifications, webhook, http api, format json,
  field selection, serve, openapi.
---

# Open Mail CLI - Agent Email Toolkit

This skill equips the agent with a full-featured email client accessible via the `mail-cli` command. The agent can send, receive, search, organize, and automate emails entirely from the terminal through IMAP/SMTP protocols, with offline-first local storage. It also provides a local HTTP API server for programmatic integration.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g open-mail-cli
# Requirements: Node.js >= 18.0.0
```

## Getting Started

### 1. Configure an Email Account

```bash
# Interactive wizard (recommended)
mail-cli config

# Or manual setup
mail-cli account add --email user@gmail.com --name "My Gmail" \
  --imap-host imap.gmail.com --imap-port 993 \
  --smtp-host smtp.gmail.com --smtp-port 465 \
  --username user@gmail.com --password "app-password" --test
```

### 2. Sync, Read, and Send

```bash
mail-cli sync                # Fetch emails from server
mail-cli list --unread       # Browse unread emails
mail-cli list --format json --fields id,subject,from  # Structured output for parsing
mail-cli read <email-id>     # Read a specific email
mail-cli send --to user@example.com --subject "Hello" --body "Content"
```

## Capabilities Overview

Choose the reference that matches the task at hand. Each reference includes purpose, scenarios, best practices, and full command syntax.

### Output Control & Error Handling
> Reference: [references/output-and-errors.md](references/output-and-errors.md)

Control output format (`--format json/markdown/html`), select specific fields (`--fields`), and handle errors via standardized exit codes and JSON error output. Use this when the agent needs to parse command output programmatically or handle failures gracefully.

### Webhooks & HTTP API
> Reference: [references/webhooks-and-api.md](references/webhooks-and-api.md)

Register webhooks for email events, trigger scripts on new mail, and use the local HTTP API server with OpenAPI documentation. Use this when the agent needs real-time event-driven workflows or REST API integration.

### Sending & Composing
> Reference: [references/sending-and-replying.md](references/sending-and-replying.md)

Send emails, reply to conversations, forward messages, and manage drafts. Use this when the user needs to compose or respond to emails.

### Reading & Searching
> Reference: [references/reading-and-searching.md](references/reading-and-searching.md)

List, filter, read, and search emails. View conversations as threads. Use this when the user wants to check inbox, find specific emails, or follow a conversation.

### Organization
> Reference: [references/organization.md](references/organization.md)

Organize emails with tags, folders, stars, flags, and trash management. Use this when the user wants to categorize, prioritize, or clean up their mailbox.

### Accounts & Sync
> Reference: [references/accounts-and-sync.md](references/accounts-and-sync.md)

Manage multiple email accounts, configure IMAP/SMTP, run background sync daemon. Includes provider settings table (Gmail, Outlook, QQ Mail, etc.) and troubleshooting. Use this for setup, connectivity issues, or multi-account workflows.

### Automation
> Reference: [references/automation.md](references/automation.md)

Email templates with variables, signatures, desktop notifications, spam filtering, contact management, and import/export. Use this when the user wants to automate repetitive email tasks or manage contacts and spam.

## Key Principles

- **Sync before read**: Local storage is offline-first. Always `mail-cli sync` before listing or searching if fresh data is expected.
- **Confirm before send**: Always verify recipient, subject, and content with the user before executing `send`, `reply`, or `forward`.
- **Non-destructive by default**: `delete` moves to trash. Only use `--permanent` when the user explicitly requests irreversible deletion.
- **Use `--yes` for automation**: Skip interactive confirmation prompts in automated workflows.
- **Use `--format json` for parsing**: When the agent needs to parse output programmatically, use JSON format. Use `--format markdown` when output is consumed by an LLM.
- **Use `--fields` to reduce noise**: Request only the fields needed (e.g. `--fields id,subject,from`) to keep output focused and reduce token usage.
- **Check exit codes for error handling**: Exit codes indicate error category (0=success, 1=general, 2=validation, 3=network, 4=auth). Branch logic based on exit code instead of parsing error text.
- **Templates over repetition**: If the user sends similar emails more than twice, create a template.
- **Tags for cross-cutting, folders for exclusive**: An email can have multiple tags but belongs to one folder.
